---
layout: post
comments: false
publish: false
title: You're Deploying it Wrong! - AS Edition (Part 2)
date: 2019-02-20
---

This is part 2 of the Analysis Services DevOps blog series.

## Branching strategy and workflow

The first thing we need to align before getting started, is what branching strategy to use. While this sounds boring, it's actually quite important, because it will dictate what the daily development workflow will be like, and in many cases, branches will tie directly into the project methods used by your team. For example, using the [agile process within Azure DevOps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/boards/work-items/guidance/agile-process?view=azure-devops), your backlog would consist of **Epics**, **Features**, **User Stories**, **Tasks** and **Bugs** (well, hopefully not too many Bugs, since we're going to automate testing as part of our DevOps journey).

In the agile terminology, a **User Story** is a deliverable, testable piece of work. The User Story may consist of several **Tasks**, that are smaller pieces of work that need to be performed, typically by a developer, before the User Story may be delivered. In the ideal world, all User Stories have been broken down into manageable tasks, each taking only a couple of hours to complete, adding up to no more than a handful of days for the entire User Story. This would make a User Story an ideal candidate for a so-called [Topic Branch](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Branching-Workflows), where the developer could make one or more commits for each of the tasks within the User Story. Once all tasks are done, you want to deliver the User Story to the client, at which time the topic branch is merged into a delivery branch (for example, a "Test" branch), and the code deployed to a testing environment.
